>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MARCH 19:
THE REPUBLICAN PLAN TO REFORM
HEALTH CARE HEADS TO THE FLOOR
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
SENATE CONFIRMATION HEARINGS ARE
SET TO BEGIN FOR SUPREME COURT
NOMINEE NEIL GORSUCH.
AND REMEMBERING ROCK N' ROLL
PIONEER CHUCK BERRY.
>> HE MOVED THE GUITAR FRONT AND
CENTER IN ROCK AND ROLL.
HE DEFINED THAT WAS THE
INSTRUMENT AND THAT WAS THE
SOUND.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY'S HEALTH
CARE PLAN HAS MADE ITS WAY
THROUGH THREE HOUSE COMMITTEES
AND FACES A FLOOR VOTE THIS
WEEK.
AS WE'VE REPORTED BEFORE, THE
BILL WOULD, AMONG MANY OTHER
THINGS, REPEAL THE MANDATE FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO HAVE INSURANCE
AND THE TAX PENALTIES FOR
FAILING TO DO SO.
REPLACE INCOME-BASED SUBSIDIES
TO BUY INSURANCE WITH AGE-BASED
TAX CREDITS AND PHASE OUT THE
FEDERALLY FUNDED EXPANSION OF
MEDICAID COVERAGE FOR LOW INCOME
AMERICANS.
TODAY, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
SECRETARY TOM PRICE SAID THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION IS NOW
PROPOSING A WORK REQUIREMENT FOR
ABLE-BODIED INDIVIDUALS ON
MEDICAID.
>> THE WORK REQUIREMENTS ARE
IMPORTANT, THEY'RE SOMETHING
THAT ARE RESTORATIVE TO PEOPLE'S
SELF-WORTH, SELF-SENSE OF
THEMSELVES ABOUT WORKING WHEN
THEY'RE ABLE TO.
WE BELIEVE IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
FOLKS TO HAVE A JOB, THAT THEY
CONTRIBUTE NOT JUST TO SOCIETY,
BUT THEY CONTRIBUTE TO THEIR OWN
WELL-BEING.
>> Sreenivasan: THOUGH THE BILL
WOULD MAINTAIN THE PROHIBITION
ON INSURERS DROPPING INDIVIDUALS
WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS,
HOUSE DEMOCRATIC LEADER NANCY
PELOSI SAID TODAY THE PLAN WOULD
CAUSE TOO MANY AMERICANS TO LOSE
COVERAGE.
>> IMAGINE A BILL THAT TAKES 24
MILLION PEOPLE OUT OF HEALTH
INSURANCE, GIVES THE BIGGEST
TRANSFER OF WEALTH IN OUR
COUNTRY'S HISTORY-- $600 BILLION
TAKEN FROM WORKING CLASS
FAMILIES IN OUR COUNTRY, MIDDLE
CLASS AND THOSE WHO ASPIRE TO IT
--TO THE TOP ONE PERCENT.
$600 BILLION, ROBIN HOOD IN
REVERSE.
SECRETARY OF STATE REX TILLERSON
WOUND UP HIS FIRST OFFICIAL ASIA
TRIP TODAY BY MEETING CHINESE
PRESIDENT XI JINPING.
TILLERSON SAID PRESIDENT TRUMP
PLACES A HIGH VALUE ON
COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO
LEADERS.
THE CHINESE PRESIDENT, WHO IS
EXPECTED TO VISIT THE U.S. NEXT
MONTH SAID HE AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAVE SPOKEN SEVERAL TIMES
AND AGREE THAT, QUOTE, "THE
JOINT INTERESTS OF CHINA AND THE
US FAR OUTWEIGH THE
DIFFERENCES."
ISSUES LIKE NORTH KOREA'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM, TAIWAN, AND THE
SOUTH CHINA SEA DISPUTE WERE NOT
MENTIONED IN THEIR JOINT PRESS
APPEARANCE.
AT THE SAME TIME, NORTH KOREA
ANNOUNCED IT CONDUCTED A GROUND
TEST OF A NEW HIGH-THRUST
ROCKET ENGINE.
GOVERNMENT-RUN MEDIA RELEASED
PHOTOS OF NORTH KOREAN LEADER
KIM JONG UN WITNESSING
YESTERDAY'S TEST IN PERSON.
HE CALLED IT A "NEW BIRTH"
FOR THE COUNTRY'S ROCKET
INDUSTRY.
THE MEDIA REPORT INDICATED THE
ENGINE IS MEANT FOR NORTH
KOREA'S SATELLITE LAUNCHING
PROGRAM AND LONG RANGE MISSILES.
GERMANY IS REJECTING PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S CLAIM IT OWES NATO AND
THE US, QUOTE, "VAST SUMS" OF
MONEY FOR DEFENSE.
TODAY, GERMAN DEFENSE MINISTER
URSULA VON DER LEYEN RESPONDED
TO YESTERDAY'S TWEET BY MISTER
TRUMP THAT ALSO SAID:"
...THE UNITED STATES MUST BE
PAID MORE FOR THE POWERFUL, AND
VERY EXPENSIVE, DEFENSE IT
PROVIDES TO GERMANY."
VON DER LEYEN SAID, "THERE IS NO
DEBTOR ACCOUNT AT NATO," AND
POINTED OUT GERMANY ALSO
CONTRIBUTES TO UN PEACEKEEPING
MISSIONS AND THE FIGHT AGAINST
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
DURING HER VISIT TO THE WHITE
HOUSE FRIDAY, CHANCELLOR ANGELA
MERKEL SAID GERMANY IS COMMITTED
TO REACHING THE NATO MEMBER
TARGET OF SPENDING THE
EQUIVALENT OF TWO PERCENT ITS
TOTAL ECONOMIC OUTPUT ON
DEFENSE, OVER THE NEXT DECADE
IN AFGHANISTAN, U.S. MILITARY
OFFICIALS SAY THREE AMERICAN
SOLDIERS WERE SHOT AND WOUNDED
TODAY BY AN AFGHAN SOLDIER IN AN
APPARENT INSIDER ATTACK AT A
JOINT BASE IN HELMAND PROVINCE..
A U.S. SPOKESMAN SAID THE AFGHAN
SOLDIER WAS SHOT AND KILLED, AND
THE THREE AMERICANS WERE BEING
TREATED FOR THEIR WOUNDS.
AFGHAN OFFICIALS CLAIMED THE
SHOOTING WAS A, QUOTE, "MISTAKE"
AND NOT INTENTIONAL.
AN INSIDER ATTACK AT THE SAME
BASE IN 2015 RESULTED IN THE
DEATHS OF TWO AMERICAN AIRMEN.
MORE THAN 8,000 AMERICAN TROOPS
REMAIN DEPLOYED IN AFGHANISTAN.
IN THE DEBATE OVER PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S PROPOSED WALL ALONG THE
MEXICAN BORDER, THE HEAD OF
MEXICO'S NATIONAL GOVERNOR'S
ASSOCIATION IS DECLARING A"
FIRST VICTORY".
GOVERNOR GRACO RAMIREZ SAID
DURING A WEEKEND VISIT IN
WASHINGTON-- THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S BUDGET REQUEST
FOR $2.6 BILLION TO START
CONSTRUCTION IS PROOF THE
PRESIDENT IS ASKING AMERICANS TO
PAY FOR THE WALL AFTER ALL, NOT
MEXICO.
U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER
PROTECTION IS NOW SOLICITING
DESIGN PROPOSALS BASED ON
SPECIFICATIONS POSTED TO ITS
WEBSITE FRIDAY.
THOSE ARE DUE MARCH 29.
THE SENATE CONFIRMATION HEARINGS
FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP'S FIRST
SUPREME COURT NOMINEE, JUDGE
NEIL GORSUCH, BEGIN TOMORROW.
JOINING ME NOW TO LOOK AHEAD AT
WHAT TO EXPECT IS "NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JEFF GREENFIELD FROM SANTA
BARBARA, CALIFORNIA.
>> JEFF, THIS FINALLY TAKES THE
SPOTLIGHT OFF OF WHETHER OR NOT
PRESIDENT OBAMA, ILLEGALLY
WIRETAPPED PRESIDENT TRUMP.
SO MANY OTHER STORY LINES THAT
HAD BEEN BUILDING UP IN THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION.
>> RIGHT.
THIS HAS GOT TO BE A VERY
WELCOME EVENT.
BECAUSE HE'S PHRASING RESISTANCE
THERE HIS LEFT AND RIGHT ON
HEALTH CARE.
SOME REPUBLICANS HAVE BEEN TOUGH
ON HIM FOR THOSE UNFOUNDED
ACCUSATIONS.
BUT WITH THE NOMINATION OF NEAL
GORSUCH.
THE PRESIDENT HIT A TEN STRIKE
AMONG REPUBLICANS.
WE GOT TO VOTE FOR HIM BECAUSE
THE SUPREME COURT'S AT STAKE AND
WHAT HE'S DELIVERED IS A NOMINEE
WHO HAS NOT ONLY DRAWN UNANIMOUS
PRAISE FROM THE RIGHT BUT
GRUDGING PRAISE FROM THE
LIBERALS BECAUSE OF HIS
TEMPERAMENT.
HE IS NOT AN ANTONIN
SCALIA-LIKE JUDGE WHO WRITES AND
FOMENTS ABOUT THINGS LIKE "THE
HOMOSEXUAL AGENDA."
THE PRESSURE OFF THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S A LOT
OF PRESSURE ON DEMOCRATIC
SENATORS TO STOP AT ALL COSTS
CONSIDERING MERRICK GARLAND
DIDN'T GET A SHAKE.
>> THIS IS A PROBLEM FOR CHUCK
SCHUMER, HE HAS ENOUGH TO
FILIBUSTER.
THE PROBLEM IS IF HE TRIES A
FILIBUSTER, SENATE MAJORITY
LEEWARD McCONNELL COULD SAY,
WE ARE GOING TO ABOLISH THE
FILIBUSTER, WHICH IS PROBABLY
WHAT CHUCK SCHUMER WOULD HAVE
DONE IF HE HAD A MAJORITY AND
PRESIDENT CLINTON.
THEN, AS YOU SAY YOU HAVE
TREMENDOUS PRESSURE FROM THE
LEFT OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY WHO
WANT RESISTANCE AT ALL COSTS WHO
MAY EVEN THREATEN PRIMARY
CHALLENGES AGAINST INCUMBENT
DEMOCRATS RUNNING IN WEDGE
STATES IN 2018.
THIS IS A TIGHT ROPE CHUCK
SCHUMER IS GOING TO HAVE TO
WALK, IT IS NOT EASY TO FIGURE
OUR WHAT HE DOES.
>> Sreenivasan: POLITICAL
STRATEGY THAT IS HAPPENING AND
BUILDING, LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
HEARINGS THEMSELVES.
WHAT CAN WE EXPECT?
>> ANYTHING LIKE THE LAST 30
YEARS YOU CAN EXPECT A KABUKI
THEATRE, WHEN JUSTICE BORK WENT
DOWN TO DEFEAT, NOMINEES HAVE
BEEN EXTREMELY RELUCTANT TO GIVE
ANY INDICATION WHAT THEY
ACTUALLY THINK.
THEY ABIDE AFTER THE GINSBURG
RULES, NAMED AFTER RUTH BADER
GINSBERG, AND THERE IS A DANCE,
DO YOU BELIEVE THERE'S A RIGHT
TO PRIVACY, YES, DOES THAT
INCLUDE ABORTION, I CAN'T TALK
ABOUT THAT.
WHAT THEY HAVE GONE THROUGH
JUDGE'S WHOLE PAST WITH A FINE
TOOTH COMB.
WHAT HE DID IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION, PRESIDENTIAL
POWER, RENDITION AND TORTURE,
THEY'RE GOING TO LOOK AT CASES
HE'S WRITTEN ABOUT, SAYING
AREN'T YOU ON THE SIDE OF BIG
BUSINESS INSTEAD OF REGULAR
PEOPLE?
AND THAT'S THE KIND OF BACK AND
FORT YOU CAN EXPECT BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT WE'VE SEEN OVER AND
OVER AGAIN AND THAT'S WHY JUDGE
GORSUCH HAS SPENT A LOT OF TIME
IN FRONT OF MURDER BOARDS, MOCK
HEARINGS, OF QUESTIONS FROM
DEMOCRATS THAT HE CAN.
>> Sreenivasan: SO GIVEN THAT
BACKDROP ARE WE LIKELY TO SEE
ANY EXCHANGES THAT ARE
REVEALING?
>> IT'S GOING TO BE TOUGH.
I'VE ALWAYS THOUGHT THAT WHAT
THE SENATORS OUGHT TO DO, IF
THEY REALLY WANT TO THINK WHAT
THE JUDGE THINKS, IS TRYING TO
MAKE QUESTIONS ONE THEY CAN
ANSWER.
IF YOU ASK THE JUDGE, ARE YOU AN
ORIGINALIST, IS THE CONSTITUTION
FROZEN 200 YEARS AGO?
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET A
RESPONSE, BUT WHAT ABOUT 1789,
YOU MIGHT GET A GLIMPSE INTO
WHAT THE NOMINEE IS THINKING.
BUT HE WILL ONLY APPOINT
NOMINEES WHOM WILL OVERTURN ROE
V WADE, BUT ON WHAT BASIS DID HE
HAVE ASSURANCE THAT THAT'S HOW
YOU WOULD VOTE.
I'M NOT OPTIMISTIC YOU'RE GOING
TO GET A MEANINGFUL EXCHANGE,
BUT IF I CAN QUOTE THE LATE
CHUCK BERRY, YOU NEVER CAN TELL.
>> Sreenivasan: NewsHOUR
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JEFF
GREENFIELD, THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: ACCORDING TO THE
UNITED NATIONS FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION, AROUND
ONE-THIRD OF ALL THE FOOD
PRODUCED FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
IS LOST OR WASTED.
GLOBALLY, THAT'S 1.4 BILLION
TONS OF FOOD A YEAR.
IN SOUTH KOREA, THERE IS A
TESTED APPROACH THAT'S MADE THE
NATION ONE OF THE WORLD LEADERS
IN FOOD WASTE RECYCLING.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S MORI ROTHMAN
HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: SUJIN WOO AND HER
MOTHER, LEE BO-OK LIVE IN AN
APARTMENT IN SOUTH KOREA'S
CAPITAL OF SEOUL.
ON THIS SATURDAY MORNING, LEE IS
MAKING KOREAN FRIED SWEET
POTATOES FOR LUNCH.
SOME PARTS OF THE FOOD, LIKE THE
SWEET POTATO PEELS, WON'T MAKE
THE FINAL DISH, BUT INSTEAD OF
TOSSING THEM IN THE TRASH, LEE
PLACES THE FOOD WASTE IN THIS
SPECIAL CONTAINER.
IN SOUTH KOREA, SEPARATING FOOD
WASTE FROM THE REST OF YOUR
GARBAGE IS REQUIRED BY LAW, AND
ANYONE WHO DOESN'T RECYCLE FOOD
WASTE FACES POTENTIAL FINES.
SEOUL'S 10 MILLION RESIDENTS
STARTED PAYING FOR THEIR FOOD
WASTE BY WEIGHT IN 2013, A
POLICY NOW IN 16 OTHER CITIES
AND PROVINCES.
WOO DISPOSES OF THE FOOD WASTE
IN BAGS BOUGHT FROM THE CITY AND
TRACKS HER FOOD WASTE WITH A
RADIO FREQUENCY ID CARD.
WOO TAPS THE CARD TO REGISTER
THE HOUSEHOLD AND DUMPS HER FOOD
WASTE INTO THE BIN, WHICH LOGS
HOW MUCH WASTE SHE'LL BE CHARGED
FOR.
>> AT THE END OF THE MONTH,
DEPENDING ON HOW MUCH FOOD WE
WASTED WE GET CHARGED AND THEN
WE GET A BILL.
>> Reporter: SO HOW MUCH DO YOU
NORMALLY SPEND ON THAT BILL?
>> IT'S ONLY $2-3, NOT THAT
MUCH.
>> Reporter: AS THEIR ECONOMY
GREW OVER THE PAST FEW DECADES,
SOUTH KOREANS STARTED DINING OUT
MORE AND WASTING MORE FOOD. THE
COUNTRY BANNED ALL FOOD WASTE
FROM LANDFILLS IN 2005.
TODAY, SUJIN AND HER MOM SAY
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE IN THE WAY
THEIR GENERATIONS THINK ABOUT
THE PROBLEM.
>> I TEND TO HAVE A BIG APPETITE
BUT I ALSO WANT TO MAKE SURE I'M
NOT EATING TOO MUCH OR GAINING
TOO MUCH WEIGHT SO ALTHOUGH IT'S
BAD TO LEAVE FOOD I ALSO THINK
ABOUT MY DIET SO I DON'T FEEL AS
GUILTY.
>> NOW THAT WE LIVE IN A MORE
PROSPEROUS SOCIETY I THINK
THERE'S MORE FOOD BEING WASTED,
BECAUSE THERE'S MORE VARIETY OF
FOOD AS WELL.
AND I ALWAYS FEEL VERY GUILTY IF
I END UP WASTING FOOD.
>> Reporter: HAN SUNG HYUN
OVERSEES SEOUL'S FOOD WASTE
PROGRAM AT THE CITY
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
DIVISION.
>> AT FIRST, WE PROCESSED ALL
THE FOOD WASTE IN LANDFILLS.
THEN WE REALIZED THE POLLUTION
IT CREATED, AND WANTED TO FIND A
WAY TO RECYCLE THE WASTE.
>> Reporter: HYUN SAYS THE CITY
USED TO SPEND $600,000 A DAY ON
FOOD WASTE DISPOSAL- MONEY NOW
SAVED THROUGH RECYCLING.
>> IT ACTUALLY COSTS A LOT TO
PROCESS THE FOOD WASTE.
SO WE WERE LIKE, LET US FIND THE
WAY TO SAVE MONEY, ALSO TO
REDUCE POLLUTION, AND EVENTUALLY
TO FIND A WAY TO RECYCLE THE
WASTE.
>> Reporter: SEOUL DEPLOYS
SPECIAL TRUCKS TO PICK UP FOOD
WASTE FROM APARTMENT COMPLEXES,
RESTAURANTS, AND OTHER
BUSINESSES AND BRING THEM TO
SPECIAL RECYCLING FACILITIES.
THIS ONE HANDLES 80 TO 90 TRUCK-
LOADS EVERY DAY.
THIS IS ONE OF FIVE FACTORIES IN
SEOUL THAT PROCESSES FOOD WASTE.
THIS MACHINE DRIES THE FOOD
WASTE AND TURNS IT INTO ANIMAL
FEED IN JUST THREE HOURS.
ANOTHER BYPRODUCT OF THE FOOD
RECYCLING IS BIOGAS: A MIX OF
METHANE AND OTHER GASES THAT CAN
BE BURNED FOR ENERGY.
THIS PLANT CREATES ENOUGH BIOGAS
TO MEET 90% OF ITS ELECTRICITY
NEEDS.
HYUN SAYS BESIDES ASSESSING
FINES, PUBLICIZING THE BENEFITS
OF FOOD RECYCLING IS KEY TO
CITYWIDE COOPERATION.
>> AS THE AWARENESS INCREASES, I
CAN SAY THAT OUT OF 1,000
HOUSEHOLDS, THERE ARE ABOUT 10-
15% OF HOUSEHOLDS THAT DO NOT
PRODUCE ANY FOOD WASTE AT ALL.
AS WE RECEIVE MORE SUPPORT, I
SEE WE ARE ON THE RIGHT PATH TO
SAVE THE ENVIRONMENT AND MORE
RECYCLING.
>> Reporter: IN THE FOUR YEARS
RESIDENTS AND BUSINESSES HAVE
BEEN CHARGED BY THE WEIGHT OF
THEIR FOOD WASTE, SEOUL'S
OVERALL FOOD WASTE HAS DECREASED
10%, BY MORE THAN 300 TONS A
DAY.
THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
DIVISION HOPES TO TRIPLE THAT
REDUCTION TO 30% OVER THE NEXT
FOUR YEARS.
TO LEARN ABOUT THE FACTORS
CONTRIBUTING TO THE DIVIDE
BETWEEN LIFE IN RURAL AND URBAN
AMERICA, VISIT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
IN A TWEET TODAY, MICK JAGGER
SAID OF CHUCK BERRY: "HE LIT UP
OUR TEENAGE YEARS, AND BLEW
LIFE INTO OUR DREAMS OF BEING
MUSICIANS AND PERFORMERS."
BERRY DIED YESTERDAY AT HIS HOME
IN SAINT LOUIS.
HE WAS 90 YEARS OLD.
WHEN THE ROCK N' ROLL HALL OF
FAME OPENED IN 1986, BERRY WAS
THE FIRST ARTIST INDUCTED.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S IVETTE
FELICIANO HAS MORE ON THIS MUSIC
LEGEND.
♪
>> ♪ HE'S DOWN IN LOUISIANA...
>> Reporter: WITH SONGS LIKE
"JOHNNY B. GOODE," CHUCK BERRY
HELPED DEFINE ROCK 'N ROLL,
BUILDING BLOCKS FOR THE BEATLES,
THE ROLLING STONES, THE BEACH
BOYS, BOB DYLAN, AND MANY MORE.
BORN IN ST. LOUIS IN 1926, BERRY
TAUGHT HIMSELF TO PLAY GUITAR
AND FUSED THE SOUNDS OF BLUES
AND COUNTRY, CREATING A NEW
SOUND AND LYRICS THAT APPEALED
TO BLACK AND WHITE AUDIENCES
ALIKE, A RARE FEAT FOR A BLACK
ARTIST IN THE 1950s.
♪
AND HE SPOKE TO CHANGING
ATTITUDES ABOUT RACE AND SEX
AMONG TEENS WITH SONGS LIKE"
BROWN EYED HANDSOME MAN."
SIGNED BY CHESS RECORDS IN 1955,
HIS FIRST HIT WAS "MAYBELLENE."
OVER THE NEXT DECADE, BERRY
WROTE THE HITS ROLL OVER
BEETHOVEN, SCHOOL DAY, NO
PARTICULAR PLACE TO GO, NADINE,
AND BACK IN THE USA.
HE WAS FAMOUS FOR IMPROVISING ON
STAGE, AND THE OWNER OF THE ST
LOUIS CLUB BLUEBERRY HILL, WHERE
BERRY PERFORMED WILL INTO HIS
80s, SAYS HIS GUITAR PLAYING WAS
REVOLUTIONARY.
>> CHUCK BERRY MADE THE GUITAR A
STAR.
HE TOOK IT FROM A RHYTHM
BACKGROUND INSTRUMENT INTO
PLAYING BEHIND HIS HEAD, AND HE
INTUITIVELY CHOREOGRAPHED THE
FIRST GREAT ROCK AND ROLL STAGE
MOVES AND ON HIS OWN, WHETHER HE
WAS PLAYING IT BEHIND HIS HEAD,
BETWEEN HIS LEGS.
>> Reporter: JOHN LENNON ONCE
SAID IF YOU TRIED TO GIVE ROCK N
ROLL ANOTHER NAME, YOU MIGHT
CALL IT CHUCK BERRY, AND ROLLING
STONES GUITARIST KEITH RICHARDS
ONCE CONFESSED HE'D STOLEN EVERY
GUITAR LICK FROM HIM.
RICHARDS GAVE THE INDUCTION
SPEECH WHEN BERRY WAS AMONG THE
FIRST CLASS INDUCTED INTO THE
ROCK N ROLL HALL OF FAME.
BERRY PERFORMED AT THE WHITE
HOUSE AND RECEIVED A GRAMMY
LIFETIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD AND A
STAR ON THE HOLLYWOOD WALK OF
FAME, AND THEN THERE WAS THIS
TRIBUTE: WHEN NASA LAUNCHED THE
UNMANNED VOYAGER I SPACECRAFT IN
1977, "JOHNNY B. GOODE" WAS THE
ONE ROCK SONG INCLUDED AMONG
RECORDINGS THAT WOULD EXPLAIN
MUSIC ON EARTH.
BERRY WAS SET TO RELEASE AN
ALBUM OF NEW SONGS, ENTITLED"
CHUCK," LATER THIS YEAR.
AS NEWS OF HIS DEATH SPREAD,
HOMETOWN FANS GATHERED AROUND
HIS STATUE ON THE UNIVERSITY OF
SAINT LOUIS CAMPUS TO MOURN.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ON
THE LIFE AND INFLUENCE OF CHUCK
BERRY I'M JOINED HERE IN THE
STUDIO BY JOURNALIST ALAN LIGHT.
HERE WROTE TODAY'S NEW YORK
TIMES ARTICLE 15 ESSENTIAL CHUCK
BERRY SONGS, AND HAS ALSO BEEN
A WRITER FOR ROLLING STONE,
AN EDITOR OF SPIN AND VIBE
MAGAZINES, AND A MUSIC
CORRESPONDENT FOR NPR.
>> THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, HARI.
>> THE SIGNIFICANCE OF CHUCK
BERRY, FOR SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T
FOLLOW ROCK 'N' ROLL AND THE
HISTORY OF IT.
WHY IS HE SUCH AN IMPORTANT
FIGURE?
>> IF YOU ARE LOOKING AT THE
HISTORY OF ROCK 'N' ROLL, IT IS
IMPOSSIBLE TO OVERSTATE WHAT
CHUCK BERRY ACCOMPLISHED.
MORE THAN ANYBODY, THIS IS THE
GUY WHO REALLY DEFINED AND
STAKED OUT WHAT ROCK 'N' ROLL
WOULD BECOME.
HE DEFINED IT AS A STYLE THAT
YOU KNOW IN WHICH THE GUITAR
WOULD BE THE PROMINENT
INSTRUMENT.
IN WHICH THE LYRIC CONCERNS OF
CARS AND GIRLS AND ADOLESCENTS,
WOULD BE THE FOCUS OF WHERE
THESE SONGS WERE GOING TO GO.
LISTEN, MICK JAGGER AND KEITH
RICHARD MET ON THE BASIS OF ONE
OF THEM SEEING THE OTHER ON THE
TRAIN, CARRYING A CHUCK BERRY
RECORD.
IT IS NOT EVEN THE STRAIGHT LINE
FROM CHUCK BERRY TO THE ROLLING
STONES, BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN, BOB
DYLAN, ALL OF THEM STATED OVER
AND OVER AGAIN THEY WOULD NOT
HAVE DONE WHAT THEY DID WITHOUT
HIM DOING IT FIRST.
>> Sreenivasan: THE GREATEST
PURE ROCK 'N' ROLL WRITER WHO
EVER LIVED.
THAT COMES FROM A PERSON WHO
KNOWS A THING OR TWO ABOUT
WRITING.
>> YES, IN THE END THERE WERE SO
MANY THINGS THAT CHUCK BERRY DID
THAT WERE REVOLUTIONARY.
BUT ULTIMATELY IT IS THE SONG
WRITING I THINK THAT PERSEVERES,
AND IT WILL STAND ABOVE ALL.
HIS EYE FOR DETAIL, HIS EAR FOR
LANGUAGE.
THE WAY THAT HE PUT WORDS AND
PHRASES TOGETHER.
YOU KNOW BOB DYLAN CALLED HIM
THE SHAKESPEARE OF ROCK 'N'
ROLL.
>> Sreenivasan: AGAIN, HIGH
PRAISE FROM SOMEONE WHO KNOWS A
FEW --
>> A THING OR TWO.
MANY LESSONS HE LEARNED FROM
CHUCK BERRY.
THIS WAS IN THE STUPID THROW
AWAY TEENAGE MUSIC.
IT HAD THAT SPIRIT AND THAT
FREEDOM BUT IT ALSO HAD A DEPTH
AND A RESONANCE, THAT'S THE
REASON THESE SONGS SUSTAINED 50,
60 YEARS LATER.
>> Sreenivasan: AND HE BROUGHT
A CERTAIN ATTITUDE TO THE TABLE
AS WELL.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
HE WAS UNAPOLOGETIC.
HE WAS A SHOWMAN, A PERFORMER,
SOMEBODY WHO WAS A PROUD BLACK
MAN AT A TIME WHEN THAT WAS A
CHALLENGING THING TO BE.
IN MAINSTREAM ENTERTAINMENT.
WHO COULD WRITE A SONG LIKE
BROWN EYED HANDSOME MAN THAT WAS
A LITTLE BIT CODED BUT NOT THAT
CODED IN SPEAKING ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, RACIAL DIVISIONS AND
AFFINITIES IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> Sreenivasan: HE WAS ALSO
PRETTY SAVVY IN MARKETING HIS
MUSIC REALLY EARLY ON GIVING
CO-WRITING CREDITS.
>> HE PICKED UP EARLY ON HE WAS
GETTING BURNED BY THE WAY THINGS
WERE BEING HANDLED.
MAYBELLINE WAS HIS FIRST WRITING
CREDIT.
THE SONG WRITING WAS GIVEN TO
HIM AND ALAN FREED, AND THE GUY
WHO THE RECORD LABEL OWNER OWED
A FAVOR TO.
FOR HIS FIRST HIT HE WAS
RECEIVING A THIRD OF THE
PROCEEDS.
WELL YOU KNOW, CHUCK BERRY
DIDN'T SUFFER FOOLS MUCH.
AND WENT INTO A VERY DEFENSIVE
BUSINESS POSTURE FROM THERE,
THIS WAS SOMEBODY WHO INSISTED
ON FULL CASH PAYMENT IN HIS HAND
BEFORE HE WOULD GO ON A STAGE.
FAMOUSLY WOULD SHOW UP FOR A
GIG, GO INTO THE OFFICE, COUNT
THE MONEY, WHEN HE HAD IT IN
HAND PICK UP THE GUITAR GO ON
STAGE BUT NOT BEFORE THEN.
HE REALLY ORGANIZED A CAREER
THAT WAS SORT OF BASED ON
TRUSTING NO ONE AND HAVING SEEN
THE EFFECTS OF ILLICIT OR AT
LEAST QUESTIONABLE BUSINESS
PRACTICES EARLY ON.
IT REALLY SHAPED THE WAY
HE APPROACHED HIS CAREER MOVING
FORWARD.
>> ALL RIGHT, ALAN LIGHT, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>TO SEE OUR FULL CONVERSATION
ON CHUCK BERRY WITH MUSIC
HISTORIAN ALAN LIGHT, HEAD TO
www.facebook.com/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
JOURNALIST JIMMY BRESLIN DIED
TODAY AT HIS HOME IN NEW YORK
CITY OF COMPLICATIONS FROM
PNEUMONIA.
THE TOUGH-TALKING BRESLIN WON
THE PULITZER PRIZE FOR HIS
COLORFUL, STREET-SMART COLUMNS
IN THE "NEW YORK DAILY NEWS"
THAT CHAMPIONED THE COMMON MAN.
HE ONCE SAID "RAGE" KEPT HIM
MOTIVATED TO KEEP ON WRITING.
BUT A RACIST NEWSROOM RANT
DIRECTED AT A COWORKER ONCE LED
TO A SUSPENSION.
BRESLIN WAS 88 YEAR SOLD.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TOMORROW NIGHT,
IN-DEPTH COVERAGE OF THE SENATE
CONFIRMATION HEARINGS OF
SUPREME COURT NOMINEE NEIL
GORSUCH.
AND DURING THE DAY, YOU CAN
WATCH OUR SPECIAL COVERAGE LIVE
ONLINE, STARTING AT 11 A.M.
THAT'S ALL OF THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.